Cito 2007

1 The claim that listening to Mozart makes you more intelligent led to
A conclusions that turned out to be scientifically invalid.
B a new appreciation of the benefits of classical music.
*C over-excited reactions among people concerned with children.

2 In his research Dr Alfred Tomatis looked upon music as
A a means of diagnosing mental disorders.
B a non-verbal way of communication.
*C a sequence of sounds affecting the brain.

3 What is the idea behind filtering out sounds of a certain frequency from Mozart's music?
A Some frequencies are more easily processed by the brain than others.
B Reducing the music's complexity makes it easier to appreciate.
*C Offering a limited sound spectrum makes it easier to concentrate.

4 The positive effect of Mozart's music on special needs children
A only became apparent after some time.
*B was discovered quite accidentally.
C confirmed earlier research findings.

5 Research carried out by the University of Reading led to the conclusion that
*A exposure to music causes significant physiological changes.
B appreciation of music is related to physiological characteristics.
C listening to music increases the capacity to absorb new information.

6 In Oliver Sack's experience music can help Parkinson patients to
A recover their ability to speak.
*B overcome their difficulty in moving.
C restore their sense of balance.

7 What does Oliver Sacks say here about music?
A It may stimulate the recovery from brain damage.
B It may provide a framework of time and space.
*C It may support deficient parts of the brain.

8 What is said here about Mozart as a child?
*A His exceptional talents went hand in hand with a problematic childhood.
B He compensated for his physical weakness by developing his mind.
C He had to overcome serious problems before his talents were recognized.

9 Which problem may gifted children be confronted with?
A A difficult relationship with children their own age.
*B An imbalance in the process of growing up.
C A tendency to overrate their own capacities.

10 What does Peter Davies say here about Mozart and his music?
A Writing music had a therapeutic effect on Mozart's mind.
*B Mozart's mental condition is clearly reflected in his music.
C In stressful conditions Mozart's creativity was at its best.

11 The debate Don Campbell mentions concerns
A the emotional rather than the physical effects of classical music.
B the way Mozart's music can improve our intellectual capacities.
*C the scientific research into the effects of classical music.

12 Why is Peter Cochran not very fond of books anymore?
A The production of books is far too costly and complicated a process.
B Books have lost their capacity of presenting information effectively.
*C Books cannot keep up with developments in his field of interest.

13 According to Stewart Brand technological perfection of the e-book will lead to
A an enormous increase in the bulk of publishing.
B widespread acceptance of the e-book as a valuable medium..
*C a new appreciation of the book in its traditional form.

14 What often happens to old media when new media appear?
A They become outdated after a while.
*B They find a new role of their own.
C They are temporarily revitalized.

15 How does Martin Eberhard look upon his version of the e-book?
A As a technological breakthrough in transferring information.
*B As a practical alternative for paper books.
C As the final answer to the book as we know it.

16 How did publishers react when the e-book first appeared?
A They ignored it for as long as they could.
B They welcomed it as a means of increasing their public.
*C They devised a new exclusive publishing medium.

17 What is said here about new media?
*A They may become useless sooner than old, more primitive media.
B They are only accessible to a sophisticated, well-trained audience.
C They are subject to technical failure, more so than media of the past.

