Cito 2006

12 What does Richard Honingham say about the eco-system in the Antarctic?
A The underwater system is surprisingly rich.
B It is rich and varied due to the inaccessibility of the place.
C It may seem rather poor but it is of great scientific interest.

13 Living organisms in the Antarctic seas
A are bound to suffer from global warming.
B give a reliable record of temperature fluctuations.
C can thrive at low temperatures, using little energy.

14 What is the experiment that is described about?
A Looking for an explanation of changes in the eco-system.
B Carrying out research into the vitality of sea organisms.
C Studying newly discovered organisms on the sea bed.

15 Which phenomenon is described here?
A Icebergs falling apart.
B Icebergs running aground.
C Icebergs melting down.

16 Which question will the experiment hopefully answer?
A What measures could be taken to protect the eco-system of the South Pole?
B Will exploitation ofthe South Pole's natural resources be worthwhile?
C How will the eco-system at the South Pole react to human interference?

17 The high concentration of oxygen in Antarctic waters makes for
A favourable conditions for animals.
B a good cold resistance of animals.
C high energy reserves in animals.

18 Laughter is a demonstration of the fact that people
A feel uncertain about themselves.
B are without reservations.
C have respect for each other.

19 Which function does laughter have in the example given by Robert Provine?
A It reflects the roles people adopt towards each other.
B It is a means of gaining control over a situation.
C It is a way of making yourself attractive to someone else.

20 From an evolutionary point of view laughter is
A an early form of speech.
B a form of controlling your breath.
C breathing under physical strain.

21 Why was walking upright important for the development of human speech?
A It increased the capacity of the lungs.
B It made for the development of a speech centre in the brain.
C It took the strain off the upper part of the body.
